The ability of python to allow you
to use broadcasting operations and
more generally, the great flexibility of
the python numpy program language is,
I think, both a strength as well as
a weakness of the programming language.
I think it's a strength because they
create expressivity of the language.
A great flexibility of the language lets
you get a lot done even with just a single
line of code.
But there's also weakness because with
broadcasting and this great amount of
flexibility, sometimes it's possible
you can introduce very subtle bugs or
very strange looking bugs, if you're not
familiar with all of the intricacies of
how broadcasting and
how features like broadcasting work.
For example, if you take a column vector
and add it to a row vector, you would
expect it to throw up a dimension
mismatch or type error or something.
But you might actually get back
a matrix as a sum of a row vector and
a column vector.
So there is an internal logic to
these strange effects of Python.
But if you're not familiar with Python,
I've seen some students have very strange,
very hard to find bugs.
So what I want to do in this video is
share with you some couple tips and
tricks that have been very useful for
me to eliminate or
simplify and eliminate all the strange
looking bugs in my own code.
And I hope that with these tips and
tricks,
you'll also be able to much more easily
write bug-free, python and numpy code.
To illustrate one of the less
intuitive effects of Python-Numpy,
especially how you construct vectors in
Python-Numpy, let me do a quick demo.
Let's set a = np.random.randn(5),
so this creates five random Gaussian
variables stored in array a.
And so let's print(a) and
now it turns out that
the shape of a when you do this
is this five color structure.
And so this is called a rank
1 array in Python and
it's neither a row vector nor
a column vector.
And this leads it to have some
slightly non-intuitive effects.
So for example, if I print a transpose,
it ends up looking the same as a.
So a and
a transpose end up looking the same.
And if I print the inner product between
a and a transpose, you might think
a times a transpose is maybe the outer
product should give you matrix maybe.
But if I do that,
you instead get back a number.
So what I would recommend is that
when you're coding new networks,
that you just not use data structures
where the shape is 5, or n, rank 1 array.
Instead, if you set a to be this, (5,1),
then this commits a to
be (5,1) column vector.
And whereas previously, a and
a transpose looked the same,
it becomes now a transpose,
now a transpose is a row vector.
Notice one subtle difference.
In this data structure, there are two
square brackets when we print a transpose.
Whereas previously,
there was one square bracket.
So that's the difference
between this is really a 1 by
5 matrix versus one of
these rank 1 arrays.
And if you print, say,
the product between a and a transpose,
then this gives you the outer
product of a vector, right?
And so, the outer product of
a vector gives you a matrix.
So, let's look in greater detail
at what we just saw here.
The first command that we ran,
just now, was this.
And this created a data structure with
a.shape was this funny thing (5,) so
this is called a rank 1 array.
And this is a very funny data structure.
It doesn't behave consistently as either
a row vector nor a column vector,
which makes some of its
effects nonintuitive.
So what I'm going to recommend is that
when you're doing your programing
exercises, or in fact when you're
implementing logistic regression or
neural networks that you just
do not use these rank 1 arrays.
Instead, if every time
you create an array,
you commit to making it
either a column vector, so
this creates a (5,1) vector, or
commit to making it a row vector,
then the behavior of your vectors
may be easier to understand.
So in this case,
a.shape is going to be equal to 5,1.
And so this behaves a lot like a, but
in fact, this is a column vector.
And that's why you can think of this as
(5,1) matrix, where it's a column vector.
And here a.shape is going to be 1,5,
and this behaves consistently
as a row vector.
So when you need a vector,
I would say either use this or this, but
not a rank 1 array.
One more thing that I do a lot in my
code is if I'm not entirely sure what's
the dimension of one of my vectors,
I'll often throw in an assertion statement
like this, to make sure, in this case,
that this is a (5,1) vector.
So this is a column vector.
These assertions are really
Set to execute, and
they also help to serve as
documentation for your code.
So don't hesitate to throw in assertion
statements like this whenever you
feel like.
And then finally, if for some reason
you do end up with a rank 1 array,
You can reshape this, a equals a.reshape
into say a (5,1) array or a (1,5) array so
that it behaves more consistently as
either column vector or row vector.
So I've sometimes seen students
end up with very hard to track
because those are the nonintuitive
effects of rank 1 arrays.
By eliminating rank 1 arrays in my old
code, I think my code became simpler.
And I did not actually find it
restrictive in terms of things I could
express in code.
I just never used a rank 1 array.
And so takeaways are to simplify
your code, don't use rank 1 arrays.
Always use either n by one matrices,
basically column vectors, or one by
n matrices, or basically row vectors.
Feel free to toss a lot of
insertion statements, so
double-check the dimensions
of your matrices and arrays.
And also, don't be shy about calling the
reshape operation to make sure that your
matrices or your vectors
are the dimension that you need it to be.
So that,
I hope that this set of suggestions
helps you to eliminate a cause of bugs
from Python code, and makes the problem
exercise easier for you to complete.